# Goals

The goal of this repo is to get a game from "literally nothing coded" to at least halfway usable with a standardized interface which is highly and easily customizable, plus user-friendly. In other words, I want to be able to go onto a brand new game and find universally useful functionality.

This file is also intended to replace and supplant the SGP Globals which come by default with MUX. It's probably best if you install this on a brand new game. Installation includes the process of disabling (though not permanently) the old SGP Globals since they conflict with much of this code.

## Installation

***Don't install this yet,*** it's a work in progress which I am only publishing to keep it from becoming lost if my hard drive fails. I will remove this message when it's ready to install. If you're someone who knows how to read git diffs, and you're OK with potential bugs, go for it, but at the moment this repo is in ALPHA.

0. Follow the netmux.conf instructions given below.
1. Download the file "1. setup/Y. Customizable settings.mu" and make your changes to it.
2. Run every file from "1. setup" in order, including your customized version of Y. Customizable settings.mu.
3. Run all the files containing the commands you want from "2. commands". (They're generally good for all games so no reason not to install them all. You can always disable later if you find one you don't want on your game.) Commands are generally grouped together with others that rely on one another.
4. Install documentation from "3. help files" into your wiki or help files.
5. Maybe try out the "tests/Layout tests.mu" file to play around with your ascii art settings from step 0.

That's it. If you want to, you can drop in any any auxillary commands you want from the "auxillary functions" folder.

"Running a file" consists of copying the raw text file and pasting the entire thing into your text entry line so that it runs one line at a time into your game. Most clients can handle this, but some might have limits or add weird characters, in which case, use a different client. Most clients also have a /quote function where they can quote a file to the game one line at a time; use that if just dropping it in won't work for you.

If any part of it gives you trouble, that's either a problem with your client or a bug in my code - most likely I left a test command lying around. You should see a whole stack of "Set."'s for a while, then normal game function should resume and you can test your new functionality.

## netmux.conf settings ##

Include the following settings in your netmux.conf file if you want this to work completely.

```text
# Raise the function invocation limit

function_invocation_limit 200000

# Players default to seeing pretty colors

player_flags ansi keepalive color256

# Rename the flag 'marker0' to 'approved'

flag_name marker0 approved
flag_access marker0 wizard

# Wizard access to function creation

access @function wizard
access @function/privileged wizard

# Required to let wizards +ban people and for hooks to work

access @admin wizard

# Required for the ability to +ban

config_access forbid_site wizard
config_access reset_site wizard

# Required for hooks to work

config_access hook_cmd wizard
```

The following settings also need to be installed, but will require a bit of customization after you've created the objects in question:

```text
room_parent 19
exit_parent 33
player_parent 17
hook_obj 32
```

## Functions

**TODO:** Document these better.

**The following functions are cribbed from SGP Globals but updated:**

```text
isstaff() - allow access if someone is a staffer (now takes into account non-bitted staffers)

secs2hrs() - functionality updated to return durations in years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds, but only the first two intervals.
```

**Some additional functions that are my own work:**

```text
interval() - return a duration between two timestamps in seconds

settimer(<player>, <timer name>, <duration>, <any extra data>) - set a timer in a standardized way that will get cleared by global code once it expires. No more cleaning up your own timers.

gettimer(<player>, <timer name>) - returns 0 if they don't have that timer or the timer is expired, and 1 or the data if the timer is not expired.

plural(<number or player>, <words to use if value is singular>, <words to use if value is plural>) - because it bugs me when I see messages like "They has one item" or "Name rolls 1 dice." plural(#12, has, have), plural(1, die, dice).

title() - a properly cased title which honors the case given by the sentence author: title(a book about the iPad by the BBC) will produce "A Book About the iPad by the BBC". (Note, this is different functionality from the titlestr() function of Thenomain's GMCCG - that was designed to turn all-caps words like "COOKING" into title-cased "Cooking". This would keep the original word's case and produce "COOKING".)

header() and wheader()
divider(), subheader(), and wdivider()
footer() and wfooter()

formattext() - wrap the text up with your default margins and borders

formatcolumns() - fit tabular data into your default margins and borders

formattable() - tabular data, optionally with a header, you choose the number of columns

formatdb() - tabular data straight out of a database, columns determined by the number returned. (Designed to work with the output of SQL Commands.mu.)

multicol() - lay out tabular data where you want to specify column widths, either as a percentage or explicit widths. Includes the ability to designate "fill" columns - * means "let this column take up all the remaining available space" - and percentage columns (type '12p' instead of '12'). TODO: Add wrapping functionality.

themecolors() - returns the theme's colors so you can use them in other code without having to hardcode a reference.

indent() - returns the standard indent.
```

**The following functions are useful for developers:**

```text
debug(obj, message) - sends a message to the chosen debugger (hard-coded in a setting below so that your debugs have no chance of escaping) only if debugging is turned on for that object. You can turn debugging off and on with debug(obj). TODO: Make "debug(msg)" on the object not require the default dbref

report(obj, message) - sends a report automatically to a hard-coded target, either a dbref or a channel. I use this for SQL failures, which I always want to know about, and send them to the staff channel. TODO: Make the "obj" parameter not required.
```

## Room Parents

This set of commands includes a custom room parent for IC and OOC rooms as well as basic commands for switching to the new parents:

+roomparent - show which room parent the room is parented to
+roomparent ooc or ic - parent the room to the OOC or IC room parent
+dig/ooc &lt;room nameand +dig/ic &lt;room name- dig a new room parented to the given room parents.

## Commands

**Commands from SGP I will be duplicating:**

```text
+motd
ooc and '
+ooc/+ic
+staff and +staff/all, +staff/add and +staff/remove
+view
+glance
+duty
+dark
+join <name> and +rjoin or +return or something cuz I always forgot that command
+summon <name> and +rsummon or +return <name>
+selfboot
```

**Stuff I will not be duplicating at this time:**

places - this would be its own thing if I created it and would not require fancy setup if I could avoid it
+beginner - I have never seen a beginner make use of this.
+info - this is going to be game-specific.
+knock and +shout
+uptime
+warn
+bg

**New commands:**

Too many to list here.

TODO: Should I add a simple standard dice roller? Seems like an auxillary thing but would be pretty easy. People would have to manually roll stuff like exploding 10s or "reroll all 1s", but it would get a basic tabletop game right off the ground and let people use 99% of systems.

TODO: Hook object to pipe convo in the OOC room to the public channel, plus other functionality? Consider modifying the desc to ensure that redirect notices are posted.

TODO: `+ban <name>=<reason>`

## More to come - this is a work in progress

This repo is expected to change rapidly and frequently.

Command syntax rules:

1. When using a /switch, and then implementing its opposite (for example, /watch), use /un in front of the same word.

2. When using a /switch with multiple clear opposites, such as /add, implement all the opposites you can, such as /delete and /remove. Make sure they do the same thing. (No /rem does one thing and /del does another!)

3. When possible, use the more clear /un&lt;whateverover the /del/remove syntax.

4. Use full words for switches but shorten as much as possible with * for brevity.

5. Make the user type out the full switch if the action has potential consequences. +watch/page instead of +watch/pa*. The extra characters act as an "are you sure". +who/columns blah won't hurt anybody, but +db/unlock &lt;tablemight.

6. When giving the user a time limit, declare the time limit to the user *and state the current time*. Some users don't have the ability to tell what time the client received the message, and their local time won't match your server's time anyway. Minimum allowable time should be 5 minutes. Err on the side of longer - 10 to 20 minutes - with functionality the user may need to think about.

Need a way to group commands - this sucker is getting too large. Some suggestions:

* Foundation code: appearance functions, data access functions, cross-server polyfills, standardized date format functions, common authentication functions like isstaff(), etc.

* Administration - job management, mail management, channel management, automatic idle player freezing, complaint management, etc. Yes, every command has its own administration abilities. This is for more global administration like banning players and reviewing probematic behavior. +staff would be a good example of an administration functionality. This also includes troubleshooting code - self-boot, command logging, booting people, +block, code to report issues, code to free a "gone" person's name, auto-idles, etc. Things players can do that will fix any issues they run into without involving staff.

* Information publication - +MOTD, +doing, BBSes, news, help, +info, etc. You tell the server "I want everyone to know X" and it does that for you based on your permissions.

* Get reporting information - code about groups of people, places, and things - +who, +where, +watch, etc - you ask the server "how many X are Y", these functions give you that.

* Get detail information - code that gives surrounds specific individual players, places, and things, like +finger, RP prefs, notes, +views, polyfills for data entry, etc.

* Flavor code - stuff that enforces the theme of the game. Maybe IC communications stuff like +txt and +telepathy. @posebreak/etc.

### Command Documentation

Most of the commands below which have flags can be shortened - for example, +who/unhilight can be shortened to +who/unh. The full text is left in for clarity.

Help files will be made available for each group of commands. Will try to make the format a wiki-friendly one.
