<!-- Don't forget to customize this to your game! -->
{{help
|topic=+finger
|detail=Get basic information about a player. Some +finger information will only be visible to staff and possibly to you, under the heading "Staff Info". You can set most +finger values, but some are determined by where you connect from and what client you're using. You do not have to set any information - fields you do not set will not show up.

	The name "finger" comes from an old Unix command which was based on the definition of "finger" meaning "to snitch" or "to identify".
|example=
* '''+finger <name>''' - view information about a player.
* '''+finger/set <field>=<value>''' - set information about yourself. Fields that can be set are:
** Apparent Age - how old your character looks.
** Gender - your character's gender - if it starts with 'm' the code will assume male, 'f' for female. Anything else will assume non-binary with they/them pronouns.
** IC Full Name - your character's full name.
** IC Handle - your character's street alias.
** IC Occupation - your character's job
** IC Pronouns - your character's pronouns
** OOC Pronouns - your (the player's) pronouns
** Played-by - the actor you choose to represent your character
** Position - your position on the game. This is a quasi-OOC field - some people use it for IC info, but it cannot be taken for granted as 'known' by other characters, so it goes in the OOC Info section.
** Public Alts - the alts you want people to know you have.
** Quote - something your character would say.
** RP Prefs - your preferences in RP - "I love comedy and I hate drama" would be an example.
** Short-desc - a brief description of your character. This shows up in the room when people +glance.
** Themesong - your character's themesong.
** Timezone - what timezone are you in, in real life? This helps with scheduling times to play.
** Wiki - a link to your character's wiki page.
|link1=+who
|link2=+doing
|link3=Communication
|link4=+glance
|category1=Intermediate_Commands
|category2=
}}